3DAMAME - 3D Actuation Magnitude Approximation of Moving Entity is a tool for verification of slight movement in bioprinted object e.g. beating, actuation, and shape morphing. It takes in video from a static viewpoint of a sample object and compares each frame set keyframe chosen from that video that represents the object’s resting or initial state. The analysis can be further refined by defining a region of interest around the object being observed in order to mitigate any potential unwanted moment detected outside the region. Movement is calculated as the pixel difference between the frame being analysed and the key frame. The greater the number of pixels detected as different, the greater the approximate magnitude of movement of the object. This magnitude is normalised to the greatest magnitude observed in the analysis, creating a movement index value which can be plotted over time in order to verify the period or intensity of movement in the sample. A normalised index is computed rather than a quantitative measurement of movement as it is not possible to measure movement accurately in 3D using 2D imagery. Results can be effected negatively if the video is not completely stable, if there fluctuations in lighting or focus, or if the object being analysed migrates away from the initial state. Thresholding can be used to reduce noise created by these issues by reducing the sensitivity of the difference detection. The resulting movement index over time graph should be used as confirmation or demonstration of non-vector movement patterns rather than quantitative analysis of movement.
